OverrideAudit
=============

OverrideAudit is a package for Sublime Text that helps you detect and work with
your package overrides, allowing you to easily see a list of files that you are
overriding, see what changes your override provides, and most importantly to
provide warnings to you when the file you are overriding has been changed by
its author so you can determine what course of action to take.

If you're new to OverrideAudit, there is an [introductory video](https://youtu.be/qYeli46frR8)
available which shows some of the key features of the package. See also the
[new features](https://youtu.be/NEX9IxLHr_0) added in version 2.1, which are
not covered in the intro video.

Full documentation for the package, including
[installation instructions](https://overrideaudit.odatnurd.net/install/) is
available at https://overrideaudit.odatnurd.net/


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


## License ##

Copyright 2017-2025 Terence Martin

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies
of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do
so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
